The goal of visualization is to aid our understanding of data by leveraging the human visual system’s highly tuned ability to see patterns, spot trends, and identify outliers. Well-designed visual representations can replace cognitive calculations with simple perceptual inferences and improve comprehension, memory, and decision making.
With some forms of time-series data, raw values are less important than relative changes.
A stacked graph does not support negative numbers and is meaningless for data that should not be summed (temperatures, for example).
Small multiples: showing each series in its own chart
Small multiples can be constructed for just about any type of visualization: bar charts, pie charts, maps, etc.
Horizon graph—doubles the data density. The result is a chart that preserves data resolution but uses only a quarter of the space.
exploratory data analysis: gaining insight into how data is distributed to inform data transformation and modeling decisions.
The Q-Q plot compares two probability distributions by graphing their quantiles against each other.
Multivariate data occurs frequently and is notoriously hard to represent, in part because of the difficulty of mentally picturing data in more than three dimensions.
A SPLOM (scatter plot matrix) enables visual inspection of correlations between any pair of variables.
Parallel coordinates (||-coord) take a different approach to visualizing multivariate data. Instead of graphing every pair of variables in two dimensions, we repeatedly plot the data on parallel axes and then connect the corresponding points with lines.
cartographic projection: a mathematical function that maps the three-dimensional geometry of the Earth to a two-dimensional image.
color encoding of the geographic area, resulting in a choropleth map.
One common error is to encode raw data values (such as population) rather than using normalized values to produce a density map.
GRADUATED SYMBOL MAPS: This approach avoids confounding geographic area with data values and allows for more dimensions to be visualized (e.g., symbol size, shape, and color).
Special visualization techniques exist to leverage hierarchical structure, allowing rapid multiscale inferences: micro-observations of individual elements and macro-observations of large groups.
The adjacency diagram is a space-filling variant of the node-link diagram.
Squarified treemaps use approximately square rectangles, which offer better readability and size estimation than a naive “slice-and-dice” subdivision.
nodes are charged particles that repel each other, and links are dampened springs that pull related nodes together. A physical simulation of these forces then determines the node positions; approximation techniques that avoid computing all pairwise forces enable the layout of large numbers of nodes.
Though an arc diagram may not convey the overall structure of the graph as effectively as a two-dimensional layout.
Allowing interactive grouping and reordering of the matrix facilitates even deeper exploration of network structure.
the DNA underlying all visualizations remains the same: the principled mapping of data variables to visual features such as position, size, shape, and color.
